all right so in the past couple of weeks
and months there's been a lot of
YouTubers quitting a lot of YouTuber a
lot of OG creators from people who been
doing it 8 9 10 12 15 years Legends and
people who we all are familiar with
who've been around YouTube for a long
time retiring or leaving or cutting back
or whatever you want to call it and yeah
I've noticed and a lot of you guys have
have asked me for my thoughts or to ch
in not that this isn't one of those
videos I'm not I'm not doing that but I
do have my own situation I've been at
this a long time and uh so I figured I'd
throw in my two cents figured I would
chime in so first of all this thing that
we're doing here this is a dream job no
question about it like we cannot forget
that I think there's a stat I've I've
referenced it before but what you ask
children of the 2010s and 2020s what
they want to be when they grow up and
they the most popular answer is
YouTuber they want to be YouTubers when
they grow up that and that didn't exist
20 years ago they all wanted to be other
things firefighters movie stars now I'm
sure a lot of this is they just want to
be famous or this is the new version of
you know Hollywood famous and they don't
really understand all that comes with
this that's totally normal but the point
is it's a very sought-after job and
that's something we all have to
acknowledge but as Tom Scott put it so
eloquently a dream job is still a job I
can't keep this up this is my dream job
and I have a lot of fun doing it I know
I'm incredibly lucky but a dream job is
still a job and it's a job that keeps
getting bigger and more complicated and
I am so tired so I I've watched all
these YouTubers uh videos of of talking
about what they're doing they're
retiring and they're not all actually
just straight up leaving if you actually
watch their videos let's be honest a lot
of them are cutting back a little bit or
taking a break or changing things up in
away but it it feels like they're sort
of retiring the main thing that we know
them for but pretty much all these
videos have something in common so I'm
going to use an analogy to sort of I
like analogies I've said this before I'm
going to use one to
explain sort of how it feels in my head
so the way I explain because I get asked
all the time what do you recommend for
someone who wants to be a YouTuber and I
liken it to being a professional athlete
pick a sport pick whatever sport you
want basketball for
example there's one thing to actually do
the the sport just for fun to go to the
park to play basketball for free to go
to the gym with your friends to play
basketball you can do that as much as
you want but there is a certain level of
hard work dedication
strategy and talent and let's be honest
luck that is involved in being able to
turn that hobby that pass passion into a
job to actually become a full-time
professional basketball player that that
is a very sought-after job and a very
small number of people who actually get
to do that and so if you really want to
turn the passion into the job you have
to be willing to put in a ton of hours
and to be and to be totally happy
playing a ton of basketball in the park
for free playing a ton of basketball in
the gym and working on the skills for
free not getting paid a
dime and that may possibly lead to you
being able to turn it into a job and you
have to be able to be very comfortable
doing it for free for a long time even
if you don't make a dime that's that's
the same thing as being a professional
athlete that's totally true about being
a professional Creator now I still think
all that's true and I still like using
that analogy but I think there's one
thing wrong with that analogy or I guess
one thing missing from that analogy
which is
that creative jobs don't scale like
regular jobs
it's just not quite the same so what I
mean by that is take the YouTube video
creator career for example when you
first start you are just being creative
like that's the that's the whole job you
are making stuff and that's the fun so
you get to have all kinds of crazy
creative ideas you're getting better and
better at making the thing you get to
have a a new idea be inspired by
something over here trying new things
and just coming up with all these fun
different ways to make something and
that is what we fall in love with at the
beginning now what might happen is at a
certain point you you get your first
opportunity to do some larger new
thing and it's super cool that that door
has been opened because of all the
creative work you're putting in and so
it's very tempting and exciting and so
you you need to sort of scale up a
little bit to be able to address said
new opportunities
and so you do that and it's awesome and
it's a an advancement clearly but now
you're spending time on that scaling up
and less time on the being creative
thing so like here's a a basic example
you're you're let's say you're a video
creator you're doing your thing you're
getting creative you're writing editing
shooting doing all the fun creative
stuff and uh then you're making some
AdSense Revenue as well so it's a hobby
that's making some money great a brand
comes along
and they offer this super awesome unique
opportunity to go shoot a video that you
would like to make in some crazy fun
unique location and they'll fly you out
and give you that access to be able to
make this awesome
thing sick yeah that's that's an
advancement and that's something that's
unlocked by the creative things you've
been doing and so you do it and but you
know in that process you now also have
to manage the communications with the
brand that's the inbox stuff you're
doing invoicing and then all now it's
the accounting and the taxes that come
with that and the negotiation in between
and the travel just a little bit of
extra work and it doesn't seem like a
big deal but that is some more time
spent doing something that isn't being
creative when the job is still supposed
to be the being creative part you see
what I mean does that make sense there
there are all types of examples of this
all over the creative world pick any
genre whether it's working with a brand
or doing some new opportunity something
somewhere that comes from you being
creative another very common example is
and I have Creator friends all the time
that ask oh I'd like to hire a team to
help with some of this stuff and that
also feels like a natural progression
you're doing so much of this work that
you should have some help you should
have a team to help you do that and you
do get the help but now a lot more of
your time is actually spent managing
those people and that team which is
taking away from the actual being
creative part so the point is creative
jobs don't scale quite like regular jobs
and this is the thing that I see in a
lot of other channels and creators and a
lot of the videos I'm watching which is
the more you scale up to address these
awesome new opportunities and level up
the less of your job is the original
thing that we fell in love with which is
being creative so how do you avoid that
I don't know I don't have the answers I
don't think anybody has the answers
that's also part of the fun of this job
is it is relatively new and it didn't
exist that long ago so there is no
Playbook to step one step two step three
here's how to become a professional
Video Creator in said genre on YouTube
that's you can try to find playbooks
like that but they won't always work
that you just there is no answer yet now
I've been very lucky
to I still enjoy I enjoy a lot of the
other parts of the process as well and
and I I started again with the fun of
making videos and learning to use a
camera and use a lens and use lighting
and microphones and all kinds of fun
things like that but also the rest of
the proc process are intriguing to me as
well so it's fun I got lucky in that way
um but I guess the only real advice that
actually makes sense and I'm not good at
giving advice to these ogs but um I
guess it's more like advice to my former
self or another version of me but it's
just to to be very very deliberate about
keeping the original goal and the the
creativity part at the core of
everything that you're doing CU it gets
really easy to get distracted and uh
kind of like that fourth grader who
filled out the surve who said I want to
be a YouTuber it's easy to get
distracted by the thought of the scale
and the money and the fame and the the
fun that seems like it comes with this
with no effort but um if you do fall
into the Trap of chasing ing algorithmic
changes or chasing the views or the or
the waves of things that happen on
YouTube it it is definitely uh it's like
a carrot on a string it's never ending
like we've all seen the Mr
beastify I love you Jimmy but there are
a lot of other channels that that look
at what Jimmy's doing as a end goal for
themselves and so they figure okay if I
do what Jimmy's doing if I follow his
blueprint I will be the Mr Beast of of
insert genre here and actually they're
right they will be but they don't
realize all the the other things that
come with that it's like a treadmill
it's like a treadmill that's that's
another analogy for you and the skill of
being a video creator in this world
where if you want it to be a job you
have to keep going and keep moving
forward and keep making things and
sharing things the skill is finding what
speed on the treadmill actually works
for you is it a slow walk is it a light
jog is it a video every this often is it
scattered videos is it one video every
month every six months that is a real
skill and a challenge to find what
actually works that satisfies both the
external goals of growing your thing and
the internal goals of flexing the
creative muscle sorry I'm getting this
is getting philosophical but you've seen
have you seen the The Da punk music
video from I guess after the last album
but for inity repeating where the AI
character is like walking walking
walking it walks slowly a little bit
faster a little bit faster and the whole
time it's it's a fine Pace but the
second it tries to start accelerating
very quickly towards the end of the
video it just like falls apart and it's
it's too much that's what burnout looks
like so in my world if you've watched
Tech YouTube videos for example which I
guess if you're here you have that looks
like you cannot make every Tech video at
least I can't maybe you can but I can't
review every single phone that comes out
I just recently we had the Galaxy s24
stuff come out and the OnePlus 12 is
around the corner and the the the find
seven Ultra is also I I can't review all
three phones at once I'm only one person
so I got to pick one I can't dive in and
try to satisfy the algorithm every
single time I just can't so even me
today I am trying to pick the right
speed on the treadmill that works for
everything that I and my team want to do
and it's challenging and I'm not saying
that the people who are retiring or
cutting back haven't done that but I do
think we're all sort of realizing you
can't run on the treadmill forever as as
viewers I'm watching Tom Scott and Matt
Pat I'm like yep I get it they're
getting off the treadmill but I'll leave
you with one more
analogy um and that is for those uh who
are still in the camp of I would like to
go all in on this I would like to to get
help and scale up and have a
team so the last analogy I'll leave you
with and I've I've told this on other
people's channels but I don't think I've
ever actually said it on this channel um
is the octopus analogy sorry my computer
over here just went to sleep with my mic
cable plugged in the octopus analogy
being a Creator on
YouTube if that's what we want to talk
about is just like being an octopus
meaning you get creative and you start
making videos and have all this fun with
the platform you are doing several
different full-time jobs all at once you
are a full-time writer you are also a
full-time cinematographer you're behind
the camera you're a lot of times in
front of the camera you're a lot of
times a full-time editor you're also
managing the inbox you're also doing the
invoicing working with Brands there's
taxes the financial accounting and also
just the pr relationships and management
all that content strategy that's a bunch
of different hats that's like an octopus
with eight arms doing eight different
things all at once so my only advice is
when getting help and this makes perfect
fundamental sense but sometimes you have
to hear it out loud you want to get
someone who's better at the thing that
you're not good at than you but also you
want to find things that you
specifically want to cut off so if
you're not good at graphic design and
you want the thumbnails to be great
maybe that's a perfect arm to cut off
and hand to someone else and then they
can do that task
500 times better than you ever could I
certainly learn that I recommend that
just cut off the arms of the the taxes
boom you can hire an accountant you can
work with people who can help you with
that and that's cutting off an arm and
handing to someone who can do much
better but you can't cut off every
arm and this is another weird part of
the analogy but fun fact a lot of octop
octopi octopuses octopi anyway they have
three hearts
weird I know uh but they can't cut those
out they have some core functions that
always stay with them and if you are a
Creator in some way there is a part of
the game there is something that you
fell in love with at the beginning it's
really worth figuring out what that is
and just keeping that just keeping that
and it's going to be different for every
Creator maybe for you it's the
cinematography or the editing or the
writing or the content strategy whatever
it is there's going to be parts of it
and there may be several parts that you
got to keep you don't cut that off and
that's that's my octopus analogy for uh
learning to be a Creator since there is
no Playbook I'm just putting this out
there learn what those three hearts are
as early and deliberately as you can and
hopefully you can run on the treadmill
with other people who control the other
legs this is a crazy analogy now but I
think you get the idea long story short
I don't think we we've seen the end of
big YouTubers who've been doing it for a
long time retiring or cutting back or
whatever I just think we're seeing them
finding their hearts I think they're you
know Matt Pat's still doing behind the
scenes stuff on his channel Tom Scott
still doing his podcast watch the other
videos and you'll see them sort of
delineating between the outside and the
inside internal motivation and that's
that's why I think it's important so
that's that's my two cents and what just
wanted wanted to get out there for this
video that's all that's all I wrote down
it's all I want to say if you ever get
to live the dream be very deliberate
about it this is a weird video okay
we'll see if I put this up thanks for
watching catch you guys in the next one
peace